# Projects
My personal projects

the premise of this project was to find 25 different but comparable products on 2 online vendors and use the data from their web pages to create a mock dropshipping website. i chose 2 vendors that sell equipment for competitive swimming. a breakdown of the files is as follows:
 - the 2 _html directories contain backups of all the HTML files that were being used for this project
 - the .txt files contain 25 URLs which link to unique products on their respective websites. every URL corresponds to a comparable item on the same line in the other .txt file (ex. link to coca cola 2L bottle in 1 file and a link to pepsi 2L bottle the other file)
 - the 2 .sql files contain dumps of the final tables that were produced at the end of running the websites
 - products.sh uses the .txt files and downloads each of the URLs' HTML web pages using the 'curl' bash command. when the HTML is downloaded, it is put through the tagsoup-1.2.1.jar file which is a java application that converts HTML files into XHTML files. finally, this script calls the parser.py program and re-runs every 6 hours to update the web pages.
 - parser.py is a python script that utilizes the xml.dom.minidom package to parse through the XHTML files and extract the necessary data from them. the script runs through the directories of XHTML files and parses through them one by one. once the data (image url, price, product name, description, # of reviews, review score) is extracted, it is stored in a dictionary variable. after all the XHTML files are parsed, the script uses the mysql-connector package to store the XHTMLs' data in a MySQL database. 
 - each of the .php files contain the code necessary to build all of the web pages for my dropshipping website. they use the MySQL database that was populated in parser.py to showcase all of the products and allows for a mock checkout process. the breakdown for each .php is as follows:
    1. index.php - this file is the home page which titles the webstore and shows all 50 products. for each product, there is an image of the product, its name, price, and a link for more information which hyperlinks to the compare.php script.
    2. compare.php - this file displays all of the information (image, name, price, # of reviews, review score, description) that correspond to the product that was selected in index.php. additionally, this page displays the item from the other vendor that is comparable to the selected product and provides all of its information as well. the cheaper option among the 2 is highlighted, and each product has a checkout button which hyperlinks to the final page, checkout.php.
    3. checkout.php - this file displays the image, name, and total price at checkout for the product that the user selected to purchase. there are also text boxes for the user's name, credit card number, security code, expiration date, and zip code (*the idea was to take these 5 parameters and store them in another MySQL table called "transactions," so a real dropshipping website would be mimicked but this feature was not implemented*). finally, there is a purchase button which hyperlinks back to the home page, which thanks the user for their purchase.
